The future of democracy
Democracyhas never been more celebrated and under threat at the same time. It has been heralded as the best way of making political decisions, but it is also vulnerable to many challenges, chief among which are citizen dissatisfaction, policy short-termism, polarization and misinformation. That is why it iscrucial for current and future decisionmakers, andengaged citizensalike, to critically assess the main challenges to democracy, and to acquire the foresight tools necessary for improving democratic governance futures. This micro-credential meets both goals.
Democracy
crucial for current and future decisionmakers
engaged citizens
On the one hand, it offers its participants a thoroughtheoretical and empirical overviewof the main challenges to democracy. On the other hand, it also crucially aims to foster students’future-thinking skillsto inform how governance could look like in near and long-term. Even though the micro-credential is taught at an advanced level, it is open to a wide variety of audiences, ranging from policy-makers at all levels of government (local, regional, national or European) to citizens concerned with the current state of democracy.
theoretical and empirical overview
future-thinking skills
The courses are organised in aninteractive wayincluding working sessions in which we let you experience the various techniques in a hands-on-manner, complemented with lectures that can be followed online or in class. The courses are therefore suitable for anyone with a professional or personal interest in the state of democracy.
interactive way
The micro-credential "Democracy: challenges & futures" consists of 2 courses:
The programme is organised in the first semester.
This micro-credential consists of 9 credits.
Courses are organised on theVUB Main Campuslocated in Etterbeek.
Micro-credentials aresmall academic-level coursesthat focus onspecific competencies. They often consist of one or a few courses, or parts of them, that are usually also taught in a university undergraduate or graduate program. Usually the classes are taught for a few hours spread over one semester or one academic year. They are literally'micro courses'.
small academic-level courses
specific competencies
'micro courses'
If you pass the micro-credential, you receive acertificateas proof that you have acquired the competencies. So you also acquire real official credits. This is where micro-credentials differ from other continuing education courses, study days or lectures. The credits and competencies you obtain with a micro-credential are recognized in your further career, also internationally, and can for example lead to exemptions from continuing education at other institutions and organizations.
certificate
Micro-credentials are important forlifelong learning. After all, in our rapidly changing society, it is essential that everyone continues to work on renewing their own competencies. Obtaining a diploma is not the end of learning, but rather the beginning. Micro-credentials are blocks that you can stack and combine throughout your life and career to further direct your own pathway.
lifelong learning
There are severaladvantagesto taking micro-credentials. They are short courses and they are specific, teaching you only what you need to further your education or specialization. In addition, the certificate guarantees your acquired competencies and the credits are transferable and often recognized abroad. You can also endlessly combine and stack micro-credentials according to your needs and interests. They are a great asset on your CV.
advantages
We put maximum effort intoblended education, a combination of online classes and classes on campus. This way, students don't necessarily have to be on campus if they don't need to, but we also believe in the added value of physical teaching moments. Usually classes are taught for a few hours spread over one semester or one academic year. If there is mandatory attendance for a particular course, it will be clearly communicated in advance. You can always view theclass schedulesfor the current academic year. In the class schedule you can find out whether a course is online, on-campus or via lecture recordings. If a course does not appear in the timetable, it can be followed via recordings. The best way to view the schedule is on a course-by-course basis. That way you can estimate whether it can be combined.
blended education
All information about the cost of this micro-credential can be foundon the website of VUB.
Click here to register.
What documents do you need to follow this micro-credential? Find outhere!
Checkherewhen you can register for the next academic year at the latest.
